- [Instructor] We're going to start looking
at the details of Azure Functions
by jumping straight into our IDEs.
Now, I want to stress,
these are demo functions based on simple executions
to get you into the ecosystem.
Each use case is very different
but again, this is just to get you familiar
with the toolkit itself.
So let's hit the IDE.
So the first thing that I want you to do
is go to the Azure extension
and I want you to click
the new project button underneath Functions.
Now, I'm going to browse and create a folder
on my local machine
in the proper directory called python-functions.
And within there, I will select,
now, I'm going to be asked for language.
I'm using Python but you'll notice,
we have several options here.
So let's go ahead and select Python.
I'm going to pick my local interpreter version,
which is 394.
Now I'm presented with a whole bunch of templates.
These are different integration points
within Azure Functions.
For this demo, I'm going to choose the HTTP Trigger.
And now I'm going to name this.
So this will be python-lil-one.
Now I'm asked for authorization level.
For most use cases,
you are not going to want to choose anonymous.
We're going to choose that, however,
so that we don't have to deal with Active Directory
and making sure that we have proper permissions.
So let's just go ahead and select anonymous.
Again, don't do this for production.
We're now given a local project
and what's in that project,
we have several files.
So let's take a look at those real quick.
The first file and the one that opens
is our init file
and this is where the Azure Function itself
is going to initialize from
and we're going to talk more about that in a minute.
You'll also notice that we have a function.json file
that describes a lot of the permissions
and the other information that we've just set,
including the type of trigger
that this function responds to.
We then have a sample data file
and this is used when we're doing remote testing.
We'll get more into that later.
We have a function ignore,
which tells the uploader to not include the files listed
in this, much the same way you would do
with a gitignore, which we also get out of the box.
Now, there's a host.json file,
which provides metadata for the Azure function.
There's a local_settings.json,
which provides you details about your local environment.
Proxies.json, again what proxies are going
to be involved.
And then a requirements.txt file,
which is pretty standard for Python
to get all of the dependencies into your virtual environment
that you need to run this
and you'll notice Azure Functions
are listed in the requirements.txt file
and they have already been brought
into the virtual environment by Visual Studio Code.
So let's jump into this init.python file.
Now, you'll see here on line nine
that this responds to a query parameter
with the name name.
If it's not there, then it goes
and inspects the body.
Now, I don't like writing functions
that have multiple ways of calling them.
So I'm going to do this more the way
that I would write this function
if I were doing it in real life.
So I'm going to delete everything from nine down.
Now, our line seven has an info message for the logging.
I don't like doing info messages
for things like function start
and that's really all that is.
So we're going to go ahead and get rid of that
and now we're going to set a body element
and that body element
is going to come from the request
and we're going to get the JSON payload of our request.
Then we're going to extract the message value out
of that body element.
And then we are going to get a count element out
of our body as well.
And then we're going to set up a dictionary for a response.
I actually want to return a payload,
so I'm going to use the dictionary to do that.
That way I can use JSON dumps later on.
Now, we'll do a simple for i in range
with our count.
I'm going to go and in the dictionary
at i plus one
because I don't like zero-based arrays
in a response element.
It's kind of nonsensical to somebody
who's calling it
that isn't really understanding things
like zero-based arrays.
So this is just how I'm going to do it now.
It's definitely not a requirement.
It's just going to show you
that we can manipulate the data
as we're going forward.
Now, we're going to set that equal to our message.
So in this case, whatever our count is,
we should print that message that many times
in a JSON body of a response.
And now I'm going to have this function return
and it's going to return function.HttpResponse
and in that response, we'll do a json.dumps
and we'll send the response.
Now, in order to do that,
I need to import json.
That's all there is to the basic code.
Let me show you the power, however,
of the core tools that I asked you to install.
We're going to run over here to run and debug
and let's start up our Python process.
You'll notice we get a URL
and we definitely could hit that URL
and have it do work for us.
But instead, we're going to go to the Azure extension
and you'll see we have a local project listed here.
Open up the Functions
and you'll see our function.
Now, I want you to right click or Option + click on it
and go to Execute Function Now.
Now, in this we will pass a message.
The message will be Hello LinkedIn Learning
and then we're going to send a count element.
That'll be an integer and we'll send six.
Go ahead and close that out.
And now hit Enter.
And if everything goes well,
you're going to see a little message box down here
that said that the function was executed.
Let's open that up
and you'll see that the function was indeed executed
and we got a response
and the response is a JSON body
that has our increment
and on each increment, we print that message.
Pretty simple.
It's what we would expect
but that's really all there is
to writing a serverless Azure function.
There's not much else.
In our next video though,
we're going to deploy this to Azure
and actually interact with it in the cloud.